want to know how to succeed with B2B SEO
and stay tuned
[Music]
hey I'm Sam Dunning co-owner ever at
webchoiceuk.com and host the top 100 B2B
marketing podcast business growth show
if you haven't yet check out my weekly
emails where I share actionable website
B2B marketing tips podcasts giveaways
and goodies you can give it a shot over
at businessgrowth dot email so for this
episode I was invited on the Paris talks
marketing podcast we shared some best
practices around B2B SEO tips strategies
how to make best use of your content
media and more we also talk about using
your website to turn it into a
conversion machine to ensure that your
sales team are fueled with a steady
stream of qualified inbound
opportunities so with that let's dive
into the episode Sam welcome to the show
Hey Paris thanks for having me on man
looking forward to the chat today my
pleasure can you tell us a little bit
more about who you are and what you do
yeah so Sam Dunning essentially I run a
a web and SEO agency webchoiceuk.com so
typically help a lot of B2B Tech and B2B
service companies that might be
frustrated their website isn't
generating a steady flow of qualified
inbound Ops for their sales team so
whether that's of organic search we're
looking at a website helping improve the
conversion rate and also making sure the
leads they get are qualified and ready
to speak sales and then like you
mentioned I also run a podcast so I
often interview marketing leaders each
week on business growth show and share
my own tips across websites and SEO and
in between that mess around on LinkedIn
posting things on on what I've just
talked about and uh I've got a family
that's got uh one one two and a half
year old say hands are full with lots of
stuff my friend
sounds like it yeah we're all messing
around on LinkedIn on the side to
different degrees for sure um but it
sounds very very familiar because you're
running an agency you're you're turning
you're podcasting and you're messing
around on LinkedIn that's pretty much
how I spend most of my days also
um so let's let's dive into it because
our audience is mostly SAS companies B2B
SAS Tech and my sense is that a lot of
times they they build a nice website but
then over time they start to ignore it
um what are some of the what are some of
the biggest mistakes
that you think most B2B SAS websites
make and how can they how can they
address those oh man this there's a lot
right so if we're talking websites only
before marketing I suppose one of the
main issues I see there's two really and
they come across design and messaging
but both Interlink so a lot of tech
companies SAS company sites I see you
can go into the home page and even after
five ten seconds of kind of looking at
their hero area their Banner arrow and
scrolling three is still not quite sure
exactly what they do or how it's going
to help or benefit you or the problem
they solve so they tend to use a lot of
jargon a lot of Insider language so you
land on their home page or their landing
page you're like yeah it sounds quite
good I can see that they've won a G2
award I can see they've got funding
they're saying that they're
award-winning they're cutting edge but
I'm still not sure exactly the problem
they fix or how would it helped me so
they lack Clarity is what I'm getting at
they don't Clearly say this is the main
problem we fix this is the benefit we
bring and this is how we're going to
improve your business or life
um and then guide you to take some kind
of Next Step whether that's learning
more requesting a demo if you in case
study those kind of things and so that's
part of it lack of clear messaging
that's going to resonate for their
target audience and then also design so
a lot of um businesses a lot of
companies especially in Tech kind of
design the site around what they think
looks good what their team thinks looks
awesome instead of actually going out
talking to their existing clients their
target prospects and understanding what
they really care about the kind of look
and feel they're going for and the main
pages on the site that they're actually
interested in seeing I mean typically
B2B buyers want to quickly get an idea
that you're going to be be able to bring
some value to them I want to check an
idea for pricing when I see some proof
of results and then if that checks all
the all the boxes they're going to want
to speak to cells and yeah those those
are probably two of the the biggest
mistakes I see we're happy to dive in
deeper oh yeah sure I I'll add one thing
that I notice a lot when I arrive at a
SAS website and I look at these day in
and day out
I think there's often a lot of focus on
the features of a product
but but also a lack of focus on the
personas or the use cases and I think
that that generally should shift it is
natural to be proud of a product and to
want to shout about the great features
that it has and to have different either
to have a features page or to dedicate a
lot of a lot of the real estate to what
the product can do but what's missing is
the the particular use cases that align
either with an industry or a particular
role in an organization or maybe even a
mix of of a role and that organization
do you find that also the kit to be the
case
yeah a lot of um I think it's it's a
problem generally with organizations
that sales reps quite often just want to
talk about how great their product is
and then sometimes marketers do the same
thing and just say look oh we've got all
these Cutting Edge features this new
technology and and all that jazz when
quite often you'll find problems can
resonate better
so if you can start with kind of this is
the juicy this is the bleeding neck
frustration or these are the two or
three problems that we fix as the kind
of selling point in your home page and
then like you say when you get to
Dedicated pages on your site where that
is talking about a specific feature or
specific product within your offering or
a demographic that you've that you help
then you can go into the benefits then
you can drill down into the features
when you're on that specific page but
going for them first it's it just makes
makes you show up like a like a kind of
white dot and a Seer the sameness like
all your competitors are doing really
because you're just saying the same
things as them rather than drilling down
straight away into what what prospects
are more more caring about
um
yeah and the SAS websites I'm going to
Pivot over to SEO and I think SEO is
largely ignored by SAS website
uh webmasters and it's partly because
the web the websites are very small
they're they're some of them are even
one pagers
but if not they're they're only a
handful of main Pages you got the home
page and the pricing page arguably the
two most important Pages you might have
features Pages you might have use case
Pages some other stuff you may have a
Blog hopefully but for the most part
because the site isn't that big people
tend to ignore SEO is that a mistake
possibly the it depends on the
organization right so if we're talking
about a SAS company if they are creating
a new category or in a category that's
not mature then SEO might not be the
best fit because people aren't aware of
the problem you fix perhaps people
aren't aware there's a solution to fix
it yeah the chances are they're probably
not searching on Google for your offer
because they're not aware you're setting
sector your category exists so in that
case you're probably better off creating
content creating media on the channels
your audience hang out with that's
LinkedIn YouTube podcast elsewhere but
if you're in the chances are you're
probably in a are in a category that
most businesses anywhere are in a
category that's got a bit of maturity to
maturity rather to it so people are
aware that there's a problem out there
people are aware that there's a solution
to fix it so in that case SEO is going
to be a big bet and like you alluded to
there a lot of companies kind of
especially when they first start which
is fair enough they just do quite simple
sites like one Pages
um or you'll just have kind of minimal
content but SEO can be kind of super
effective I mean a lot of SAS agencies
go pretty hard on specially funded SAS
companies go super hard on outbound to
have a team of sdrs yeah they're paying
good money to hit the phones hit email
Etc which is fine outbound's a good
motion when you do it right but then
they'll neglect some of the inbound so
they'll probably invest heavily in like
paid ads whether that's Google paid
search they'll probably hit up the
review sites like G2 trust error Etc
but quite often neglect organic search
um because they usually think it's too
competitive but that often means they
haven't gone Niche enough with their
keyword targeting and they haven't built
out their site effectively which we can
talk about kind of some quick wins on
that but yeah common mistakes and not
having a detailed enough website
neglecting content not doing proper
keyword research and just going for two
generic terms I.E you run a CRM company
but you're just trying to hit keywords
like CRM CRM company and those kind of
things and it's like not Niche it's not
drilled down enough
um but yeah SEO can be super effective
because the chances are people your
target prospects are searching for what
you do you just need to make sure you're
showing up for more specific high buying
intent Search terms
yeah I think there's also a another
concept of adjacent intent so it could
be that people aren't searching exactly
for what you do or the problem that you
solve
but they do have the problem and they're
searching for something that's adjacent
that's close enough
that even that even it is worth trying
to get that person
to come to your website either through a
paid click or an organic click so to to
compete on SEO for those adjacent terms
and I think that also there is something
to be said there
where you can bring people
from
some somewhere in the neighborhood of
the intent that that this needed over to
to your side
for sure for sure I mean the good thing
about SEO right like you mentioned there
is you can go for high buying intent
search them so let's say you offered a
CRM that was dedicated for the finance
company for finance companies you could
that Target Search terms like CRM for
finance or best best your own finance
companies Etc and that might be super
high intent if someone clicks through
the chances are if your website does a
good job build some Trust
um shares how you help they're going to
convert and request a demo but likewise
in the middle of the funnel people might
be comparing you to another vendor so it
might be like vendor a versus vendor b
or they might be trying to learn kind of
a bit more into into the solution so
that might be mid funnel and then right
at the top top early funnel they might
be looking for like what to consider
before investing in CRM or how to find a
CRM for a financial institution or
five tips to make sure CRM is a seamless
integration for sales which could be
really early learning stages but
positions your brand as like a thought
leader in the space so there's there's a
lot of ways that SEO can be useful
earlier in the sales process and
likewise it can integrate with other
campaigns so if you're running like
demand gen so maybe you're doing organic
content on LinkedIn if you're running
paid ads on LinkedIn if people are
seeing you there and then likewise
they're seeing you in Google organic
search it's going to just build up your
brand build up your trust levels even
more
yeah absolutely
one of the struggles that we've had is
when we try to go Niche with a in a
category so take the example CRM for
finance companies
the issue that we face in these
situations is that people are not
searching
people don't indicate their industry
with their search with their search term
so even if someone in the finance
industry is looking for a specialized
CRM that fits their needs and their
workflow
they still wouldn't indicate that in the
search term so it's not really
um it's still very difficult to Target
people by industry in in search either
paid search or SEO and then then you
naturally think well then we're only
left with LinkedIn industry targeting on
LinkedIn
uh is there a way around that is
um is there a way to sniff out
to sniff out the industry that's
associated with the with the right
intent in search
yes no I'm not gonna lie to you and say
that there is a golden ticket to winning
because ultimately like you say it might
be that some Industries lack a certain
amount of um
search traffic some some just might not
be worth targeting so you can as I'm
sure you've shared on the show before
you can use tools whether that's ahref
semrush Google Keyword Planner to kind
of get info on the data get under get an
understanding of whether some Search
terms are actually yield the traffic
that are worth targeting but was that
said sometimes the data is not always
accurate and it can be that you can
Target Search terms that show up as
having hardly any searches a month and
then you get onto them and they're
actually performing really well
um but
you want to you want to test like a lot
of things a lot of marketings experiment
experimentation so it might be that if
you are in the CRM space and you hit a
certain segment you do have to do a bit
of experimentation so you might have to
go for some more generic terms whether
that's like a CRM for small business and
things like that if you are tapping into
that and at the same time you might want
to let's say you hit two or three
Industries you might want to try for
manufacturing for finance
um for agriculture and kind of see if
any of those build out dedicated Pages
for each with the problems you fix and
the benefits you provide provide some
useful content on there some FAQs and
all that good stuff if they don't hit as
well yes you might have to Branch out
into other channels like you mentioned
whether that's creating content to
educate the market on LinkedIn around
your area of expertise and the sectors
you you help
um SEO is not necessarily a Magic Bullet
it's not necessarily going to capture
everything so I often say it needs to be
part of a multi um channel strategy with
some pain some organic and and such
yeah I would also add there that the
Google search console also gives you
great data which is looking well looking
backwards instead of looking forward so
if you if you wanted to launch industry
focused pages
and you still had some doubts of whether
or not there was there was enough search
demand to really justify creating those
pages
maybe the keyword the keyword research
tools wouldn't show you that search
demand but then when if you launch those
pages later you see that Google's
sending a lot of traffic to those pages
and you can dig into the actual search
queries that are coming out of Google
Search console and then you can
determine well looks like there is more
there is more more demand than we
thought or maybe you even discover that
Google is sending some other
different related keywords to that page
that you didn't realize and then that
could lead you to either consolidate
Pages or create new pages yeah yeah
that's a nice tip another one you can do
as well is if yourself if you run the
company or your sales team are getting
common questions on a particular
issue around the industry focus on so
for let's say for example each week
you're getting questions like what's the
easiest way to upload data from I don't
know HubSpot into your crl for you right
from Gmail into your CRM or if you're
getting these questions time in timeout
well that's something people want to
know let's create content for it let's
create an article page on our website
maybe let's create a video around it a
dedicated podcast if these things are
constantly coming up and then if your
website can be searched for that because
you've got the dedicated article page
that's super useful answers those
questions and that's another way you can
actually create content that matches
demand and search intent yeah
do you think it's a good idea for the
search marketers to spend one day a
month on customer customer support goals
to get that hear the voice of the
customer
for search marketers
yeah so that they can actually hear
those questions that are coming back
from from real customers and problems
that they have
and then they can turn those questions
into content
I think it's a good idea I think what
you can do is I often say depending on
the size of your organization right I
mean just meet up with you don't
necessarily have to get directly on the
customer calls you can either if you've
got the facility listen to recordings
whether that's gone or whatever kind of
cool recording software you use or just
get with your sales team like you say
spend like a couple hours a month have
some drinks some coffees have some beers
and just say look guys what are the
questions that are coming up time and
time again on these sales calls and the
sales team are going to jump in straight
away and they'll be like people are
asking this people are asking this and
but also not just the questions what are
the common objections and frustrations
we get
um because if you can address objections
like a sell superpower is nearly is
putting objections at the front front
loading objections on a sales call
because if you address them yourself and
the prospect's not bringing them up and
you can you kind of neutralize yeah you
can neutralize neutralize the floss back
then at that point right you anticipate
and neutralize yeah and the website your
website can do the same thing because if
your if your information page is on your
website each have FAQs that are the most
common frustrations and questions you
get on that particular category service
product or topic you're addressing them
before the customer brings them up on a
sales call
um so it might be like why is this
solution so expensive and then you're
addressing that or how long does it take
to integrate or how do you stack up
against competitor b or what's the
timeline to get results like these
questions that customers bring up each
week your sales team will help you
address them on your pages address them
on your videos your podcasts are
integrated into your website and that
way your saving sales team stress
you're putting customers Minds at ease
and you're actually driving more
conversions because you're probably the
most helpful piece of content on the web
so then Sam are you saying that that
should be the driving force for Content
creation the voice of the customer
before the keyword research
in a word yes
um because well they they're almost they
come together right because
these days it's especially in
competitive Industries it's hard to hard
to rank I mean you can do things like
this this guys especially for kind of
super competitive terms you can do
things like the skyscraper technique
where you check out certain Search terms
you want to rank for see what your
competitors are doing on their pages and
then try to one-up them in all angles
like yeah better content better insights
unique statistics
YouTube summaries Etc
but
if you can actually get and handle these
things we've just talked about unique
insights around customer questions
objections frustrations and address
those and at the same time put in some
good keyword research you're making sure
you're weaving in the necessary Search
terms topics you're building out the
website technically to address all those
things so if you can kind of interweave
them nicely it's a win-win really
I I also have found myself more and more
going to into the people also ask
section in the search results and
oftentimes that's it's pretty high up on
the page sometimes it's we have the
featured snippet and then people also
ask and and then below that you've got
technically the first ranking result
organic now I'm ignoring all the ads of
course
and the people also ask I think
represent a great opportunity too
because
that that's Prime real estate and I
don't know how you would consider that
in terms of ranking but
I I think that Google is looking for
content for those questions
and if if you can answer their customers
questions and problems I think there's a
good chance to get in that people also
ask a section yeah it's a nice point I
mean ultimately
if you just try and try and create
content off the top of your own head or
the top of your marketing team or your
content team's head it's like your your
mind is a limited resource but also
going back to what I said at the start
you're kind of Designing it around or
you're building it around crafting
around what you think is going to work
whereas if you're literally taking the
words from your customers whether that's
sales calls maybe you're active on
LinkedIn and you quite see you'll quite
often see these questions popping up on
other people's posts or your own posts
um why not address those and likewise
you can go to sites like Reddit and
quora to get these kind of these Intel
and these ideas why not utilize what
your actual prospects are asking because
the chances are if it comes up a lot
there's going to be a lot of demand and
people are probably searching for that
query
now what I have another question for you
Sam which is I've seen a trend now of
LinkedIn
posts getting longer and longer and
almost becoming
it almost seems like they're blog posts
that have moved from from the company
blogs into LinkedIn and I guess there's
also a trend
that I sense that people are more and
more going to LinkedIn to not only to
network but actually to educate
themselves and to get answers as opposed
to going to Google search which leads
them to blogs and do you believe that
that is a real Trend and would that make
an argument that certain topics ought to
be addressed first is LinkedIn posts
and then only later expanded into larger
blog posts or not even blogged at all
yeah I I often argue with Chris Walker
on his posts when he says the um kind of
SEO is dying out almost and people are
now using dark social whether that is
kind of social LinkedIn or what other
social channels they're on and then
going to internal hidden communities
like well that's WhatsApp groups like
slack Hangouts Etc now you're right A
lot of people
do
find information they need educate
themselves on LinkedIn because there's a
great platform for B2B you can literally
connect with a bunch of people and in
um in markets and industries you want to
learn about
learn information quick in the feed
whether that's long-form tax place video
Post article post
um image posts videos whatever yeah
great great Channel I do it myself and
I've kind of one business from there and
I often do business with people after I
follow them for ages but everyone a
thing to remember is that everyone buys
a bit differently so if you limit
yourself to one channel
not only that but linkedin's a rented
space so LinkedIn can change the goal
posts as they like to do change the
algorithm so you're kind of limiting
yourself to rented land if we're looking
at from a B2B SAS perspective
um so
having multiple lines in different
platforms and channels is always smart
to build up brand build up awareness
educate the market and also most
importantly generate inbound so LinkedIn
very good Channel completely agree but
people still go to search people are
still um
some people will only use LinkedIn will
only use communities absolutely right
might use YouTube might use podcasts
other people will still use search well
that is searching a query searching
directly for a type of company or
comparing companies they can use search
and whether they're going to click the
organic listing the paid listing or
maybe they'll go to a review site
because review sites tend to rank super
well
um G2 clutch Etc
so people have different buying habits
people research things differently if
you limit yourself to one channel you're
ultimately hamstring your business
especially if it's a rented Channel like
LinkedIn or another social Channel and
it's always good to have assets you own
whether it's organic search website
email list podcast that way you've got
multiple lines in the water hmm
yeah that's a good way to think about it
it's not an either or question
um that there's no there's no reason why
not to do both but I think now if the
two coexist
I still believe that LinkedIn and social
dark social that's still going to be
relatively short form content compared
to
what you'd put on through a Blog
um and you are right let's go back to
your previous point there like some
content that does show on Google isn't
as relevant there is still blog posts
that are just more click-baity and not
really like you say you can go to
LinkedIn and get more insights but then
that's your job as the business or the
marketer to actually make sure your
content does all those things we just
talked about earlier to make sure it is
genuinely useful to your customers not
just yourself or what you think is good
and tries to position your brand your
company is the go-to in your industry
um so you've got to consider that
because if not then people might just
disregard your blog and go to another
Channel like LinkedIn or a community to
get get advice you're right yeah
and all this being said I still believe
if if you go to a website that that
doesn't blog actively that to me it's
it's a perception issue I I question
well why aren't they there's a lack of
thought leadership here maybe they do
have a great product but why is why is
the last blog post from six months ago
and and and then the one before that was
three months prior so they've given up
on that why are they not you know
investing in this and it raises to me it
raises a little bit of credibility
questions immediately if I see that
um other than blog posts though what
other what are the types of content can
B2B SAS companies get into a regular
habit of producing that can drive that
consistent organic growth and also
contribute to conversion rate
optimization and lead generation yeah
yeah so I guess from the organic side of
things I mean you want to start with the
basics right when it comes to mapping
out your site so like you say a lot of
SAS companies have rather small sites
just a few basic pages to begin with and
then a demo form
um so mapping out key pages so let's say
you've kind of done a bit of research
into some of the Search terms you
actually want your website to rank for
whether that's people looking directly
for what you do whether that's people
comparing options whether that's people
just trying to learn more about the
industry or at the top of the funnel
then you want to make sure your website
is a useful resource for those pages so
quite often that means just simply
mapping out doing good on-site seo
on-page seo so having a dedicated page
for each of the main services you offer
each of the main locations you serve
each of the main demographics you serve
and then making sure those pages follow
best practices addressing the problems
you fix the features the benefits having
some unique insights maybe having some
case studies social proof testimonials
answering those common questions like we
talked about so really making sure
they're super useful resources and just
not not necessarily just sales Focus but
also building trust answering questions
and then having that call to action to
take the next step
um like you mentioned having our blog
section again gonna help you rank
and all that good stuff and then in
terms of off-page content I mean there's
there's a lot of ways you can go about
it
in terms of organic SEO so
they're even the best if you're going
for super competitive terms like there
will be in the CRM space example even
having the best possible content or
article Pages it might not rank if
there's kind of giants you're trying to
compete against so chances are you're
going to probably need to build some
links because your competitors are doing
it and to actually juice up those pages
you're probably going to need to build
some quality links which is something
we've not talked about just yet so
there's actually quite a few free ways
and lesser known ways that B2B SAS
companies or companies in general can
build some decent links and quite a lot
a lot of them are just under your nose
you're not even thinking about them
um so some ways that I often share one
is podcasting just like we're doing now
um so you can literally go on to a site
like charitable.com which is a podcast
chart site you can search for the
location you want to tap into you can
search for your industry and then you
can view the top 50 100 200 podcasts in
your sector
you can reach out to the hosts of those
shows
organize an interview with them whether
you reach out on LinkedIn email
however you want to connect with them
give them a quick snapshot into what
value you can provide for the show and
ask if they're open to having you on and
then if you do that recording not only
does it give you great PR and brand
because you're giving value to that
audience and that relevant audience in
your sector then you can often these
hosts will put an article page on their
website like a Blog on that dedicated
episode you can ask for a link back to
your site and likewise maybe they want
you to return one
um which is fair enough that's one
simple way to build up credibility and
get a link to your site
others other techniques that's a great
one by the way I love that one
so swapping uh the blog post links
because these are contextual links to
editorial content
and I think these are the most natural
looking links to Google as well
endorsing editorial content
it's it's almost a triple hitter as well
Paris it's like three benefits to the
price of one because you get industry
credibility as long as you're not
talking about how great you are on the
podcast you're actually giving genuine
tips and insights and being helpful so
you get that then they'll probably
promote the podcast on socials so you
get another boost there and then you get
the link so it's like Evergreen content
times three
um some really big benefits another way
is if you've got existing clients
existing contacts existing Partners
um that are having readable websites
their website's been around a while it's
got some Authority why not create some
content with them
so the chances are you've already got a
relationship so hit them up say hey guys
do you want to kind of boost your sea
let's let's create an article together
on a topic that we're relevant kind of
linked to or let's create a video series
together
um like in our case so we do websites
and SEO maybe we'd hit up like an
analytics company like hot jar or I
don't know a heat map company and just
say look do you fancy creating some some
videos together on talking about the
problems we fix educating the market
being useful
without a little video series put some
articles together on each other's
websites and again a nice kind of good
hitting backlink for each other on those
um those are just a couple quick things
that you might not have even thought
about that you can kind of get some nice
links and also at the same time create
some brand and incredible content
um
in your opinion Sam this
do links or a link says powerful in the
algorithm today as they were years ago
it's a tough one because content can
rank without links especially when it's
niche and it's more longer tail so it's
not just one or two two words search
um so when you're going more longer tail
when you're going for more specific
queries like we talked about earlier
like a dedicated segment in the CRM
space
um chances are if you create super good
content it's well optimized it's well
thought out it could probably rank but
when you're going to more generic terms
that are very competitive like I say you
can have killer content but the chances
are your your competitors are going to
have big hitting links to their sites
from reputable sites so if you're just
trying to put out decent content
probably not going to stand a chance
so that's when kind of in my opinion
anyway having building some quality
backlinks is actually going to help you
when it gets more and more competitive
that's when they come more into play
hmm
do you think it's okay to buy links
most people say they don't but most
agencies most companies most people do
um so as long as you're doing them and
as long as you're getting them from
ethical sources then most companies I
speak to do I don't know what your
thoughts are
I think it's okay
um
but I think it's okay to compensate
someone for uh for Value that they're
giving
um
and I also realize it's clearly against
Google's guidelines because it's
manipulative in their algorithm
but I think the reality is that for the
most competitive terms a lot of those
rankings are driven by paid links
yeah it is it is and think about it in
other Industries as well like moving
away from SEO like B2B is coming more
into influencer marketing as well which
is almost like on the same thing like
you're paying for links yeah
credibility likewise B2B you might pay
to sponsor an industry relevant podcast
um some people even pay like well-known
influencers LinkedIn to do posts for
them
um all these kind of things are coming
into Play It's not that different
yeah yeah
I mean I think that the still SEO has
been around and and one of the most
popular things to do is to say that that
it's dead
and every couple of years that there's
another movement of the SEO is dead but
what you really are implying there is
that people have stopped searching but
that's clearly not the case
and I think even Google has made huge
efforts to stay on The Cutting Edge of
how people are searching because now
that most searches happen on mobile
devices the the method of searching is
very different people are people are
speaking more they're asking questions
and that long tail
is getting longer and longer when you
consider that people are speaking into
their phone now instead of typing
typing of a three or four word query
into the into their laptop like they did
five years ago I think yeah I think it's
more about adapting really to that yeah
exactly it's not that's it's not the SEO
is dead because I mean it's for example
it's our number one source of inbound
and it's a lot of the same for clients
but it's more that people's habits have
changed to like you say people aren't
necessarily just just going to Google
search they might they might search for
queries they might learn more there but
they're also going to other channels so
they are B2B wise using LinkedIn
checking things out on YouTube they're
listening to Industry podcasts they're
asking their peers and communities and
hangouts and channels Slack
um so they're doing a mix and they're
maybe using LinkedIn ads as well so if
you can take that multi-channel approach
and if you can kind of show up in
organic search consistently and you can
show up on the other channels as a
useful resource and at the same time
position your website not just
jamming a load of content and keywords
in there but actually trying to make it
as helpful as possible by doing all
these things that we've talked about to
actually educate the market to answer
questions to handle objections then SEO
is going to be a winner for you and at
the same time you've got a solid website
that's designed for idle clients that
does build trust and that can convert
effectively and kind of follows good
technical like it loads fast and
all that good stuff and work smoothly on
mobile and PC then yeah it's um it's
going to work when it's done yeah can
you help explain to our audience this
concept of core web vitals
cool web vitals yeah I can I can to a
certain extent um
it changes I mean the thing is there's
there's a bunch of things to to think
about
um some things quite a big part of it or
a big part of when they first launched
the web titles update was things like
page speed
um so making sure your site loads fast
which
some companies like to over optimize for
it some under optimize and some sites
are just super slow and chances are if
your website's slow it's going to
frustrate a prospect and they can head
to a competitor so making sure your
website loads smoothly it loads quick
and whether that is checking it on a
tool like page feed insights and making
sure think common common issues are
things like having too many animations
having scrolling banners having heavy
videos Heavy images all that kind of
stuff using too many plugins if you've
got a WordPress site so using tools like
page speed insights you can literally
see how fast your website is on mobile
and PC it gives you a bunch of tweaks
and changes and then you can look to
optimize those with your web team
um other things like making sure the
website works smoothly on mobile and PC
um so a lot of companies are still doing
old school responsive design and that
just adapts to devices but actually
going from mobile first design so you
design separately for mobile and
separately for desktop so you can give
people an awesome experience no matter
what device they open on and mapping it
out nicely and then kind of the back end
of your site so if you use
platform CMS like WordPress or another
open source making sure the platform's
well maintained so we're keeping the
platform up to date not using too many
plugins to blow out the site keeping
those plugins updated keeping it secure
using an SSL certificate to keep the
https padlock up those are just a few
there is quite a lot of other bits and
pieces
mm-hmm
and what in your work with your clients
how much of it how much of the ongoing
work
after upfront I presume upfront audits
how much are the ongoing work do you
focus on maintaining
the technical Foundation of SEO health
and hygiene versus helping them to build
out content so that they can
they can grow organically
yeah so often it depends on what
resource they've got in-house
so some companies might have a larger
companies who might have a web team that
might want to manage the site where we
might just give recommendations so you
might just say look technically this
month we want to do some updates to the
platform where we've reviewed that we
need to update I don't know the heading
tags the metadata we need to do some of
that but more to the actual technique
more to the actual kind of structure of
the site we might also say like I say we
need to reshape some plugins we need to
do some speed work we need to kind of do
some mobile work etc
um but yeah it depends on the depends on
the facilities that the company has
in-house will give some recommendations
um but that aside a lot of it's going to
be analyzing the content
looking at the structure on site making
sure the page is on site are kind of as
effective as possible and then looking
at off-page SEO what are the
opportunities that we can do in terms of
Distributing content in terms of
building some good links in terms of
ramping up the organic positions for
some of the target Search terms
um but yeah depending on the campaign if
it's like a a full campaign end to end
so doing their website doing their links
doing their content doing their
distribution then we're gonna I keep it
keep an eye on those things
yeah
when when does it the right time how do
you know when it's time to either remove
a page or update a page
remove it from Google's index or uh or
overhaul it to
to make it more relevant
with old content
yeah that's that's a good question
um I suppose like a simple answer is in
terms of overhauling so if you've got if
you've got pages that were ranking well
I first page and they've suddenly
dropped it might be that it's time for a
refresh or likewise if you've got old
articles in your blog or your resource
pages that are maybe a couple of years
old and chances are they could do the
freshen up and quite often with article
Pages just by making a few small tweaks
you can actually get them ranking
um I.E if it was like top tips for 2020
and then you kind of rename the title
like let's say it was I don't know CRM
best practices for 2020 and then you
rename it to 2022 and five Hot Tips or
something like that and then you freshen
up the page let you add a couple more
insights maybe you had an interview with
an industry leader maybe you add some
more common questions so you just
freshen up a bit with some more relevant
up-to-date question um content and
questions those just doing that
sometimes can take it from page two to
page one
um just by adding a new lease of life
into existing content
um so that's a nice way
um I don't know if you've got any
thoughts in terms of kind of when when
it's a good good time to de-index Pages
or freshen them up yeah I mean I I agree
with everything that you just said
usually the way that we approach this is
uh if
if a page hasn't received any organic
traffic in I don't know about about a
year zero and it also doesn't have any
links flowing to it it really has no
value in it and it clutters up Google's
index it's kind of indexation bloat
so any Pages like that can I think they
can safely be the indexed and removed
entirely
if those pages have links then you
certainly would want to instead of
removing them or deleting removing the
pages from the index you want to
redirect them somewhere to preserve the
link to so you don't want to lose that
link juice
and um and then if if the page looks
like it has slipped in the rankings I
think what you said is spot on I mean
how can we how can we revive this and
freshen this up so let's look at the
serp let's see who now ranks for that
term and or ranks top three or top five
and essentially try to build think about
it like a Venn diagram you know each of
those pages that are ranking top three
cover a certain depth of topics but if
you can Circle that Venn diagram and
cover all that
kind of similar to a skyscraper
technique yeah yeah yeah yeah then you
can you can get back up there yeah so
another thing that's neglected as well
is not just the position of the page but
the actual ability of the page to
maintain visitors so also looking at the
analytics of the page I what are the
bounce rates rates on this page that
we're trying to rank are they 60 78 or
higher they need work because people are
going on this page and then jumping off
pretty quickly and that could be because
you don't answer the question quick
enough you don't address the query
um it's it might be clickbaity so the
content itself doesn't resonate with the
topic
um perhaps it doesn't build trust it
doesn't have social proof doesn't have
case studies reviews Etc
um there's a number of reasons and then
the session time if people aren't
spending much time on the page are
either spending a few seconds rather
than a few minutes then how can we
improve the quality of the page what's
missing do we need to do some cluster
interviews do we need to talk to our
prospects about kind of how they feel
the site site could be improved that's
that's a super powerful thing in general
if you can get your existing customers
who are Target prospects to actually
review your website it adds another
layer and to your site so you can
actually make sure that your content
resonates the message resonates and they
can also like one of the best things you
can ask ideal prospects is what can we
do to improve our website but if you can
get them to spend five or so 10 minutes
just looking at your site looking at
your home page headlines looking at your
information page pages and you ask them
what's missing and if they say well
you've got a pricing page on your site
this is common issue with B2B SAS you've
got a pricing page it doesn't actually
tell me pricing it says fill in this
form to speak to cells hold on that's
not pricing
um at the very least if you don't have a
b and c rates then give me a Range
product a from A to B products B from C
to D product C from D to e Etc
um it's not a pricing page if it doesn't
have pricing and the chances are people
are going to bounce off pretty quick
um see that's there's a lot of issues a
lot of things that SAS companies B2B
companies tech companies like to hide on
their website which ultimately need
leads to poor quality
unqualified leads getting fed to their
sales team which frustrates prospects
and sells reps
yeah absolutely
and I know that a lot of a lot of folks
want to empower the sales people to to
give them some flexibility and not box
them in with with a pricing transparent
pricing on the website
um but buyers are 99 of the time they're
looking for some indication even if it's
not a specific price as you said it's a
range that you know it's typically going
to be between a and b
to give them some some sense of the
investment
yeah I mean that's the thing like your
website can literally be a very worst or
a very the very best salespeople person
and if you think of your website as a
sales rep like if you ask the sales rep
straight up like what's your pricing and
they say I can't tell you now I've got
to get you on a 30 minute Discovery call
and it's like hold on I want to quickly
tell if I can afford this or not just
give me a Range like I know clients tend
to invest from 10K per year do you see
yourself falling in that bracket or is
that way off the map Great uh that's
actually a bit high no worries
um we can speak in six months when
you're ready or yes that works let's set
up a further conversation but your
website's the same if you don't share it
your competitor probably is
um and if you're a buyer that's not got
much time you're a busy CM or a busy
sales director whatever you're just
gonna head off to a competitor that
actually is more transparent
yeah absolutely
well these are some great tips Sam and
we could probably riff all day on SEO
deeper and deeper into the weeds and I I
do miss this stuff a lot myself
um as we wrap up here is there is there
anything that you wish that I would have
asked you or anything else that you
think can benefit our audience
yeah I think we've given some SEO tips I
mean if you want more there's plenty on
business growth sharing my podcast but
um
in terms of the site I suppose it's just
ultimately
really really the main thing I want to
draw home is with the SEO tips aside
like building your website as
as the best resource it can be to
prospects so making sure as soon as
someone lands on your website it loads
fast it loads pretty quickly it quickly
shares what you do how you help and then
guides people to learn more whether
that's viewing your work requesting a
demo Etc then think of it from a B2B
buyer's shoes the chances are if they've
if your homepage has done a good job and
done outline those things it's got some
social proof quickly as well some Brands
you work with some case studies some
reviews
then they're probably going to want to
check pricing so they're gonna flick to
your pricing page a few best practices
for pricing is to yeah give a range or
share your key plans then answer some
common questions around pricing why is
it so expensive how long's integration
what are the common questions have some
social proof there as well
also they're probably going to see some
proof of results so whether that's a
case study page client stories client
reviews Etc
um they might have
questions again around that to answer
those and then they're going to speak to
sales quickly but they're going to speak
to sales on their terms give people
multiple options to be to speak to cells
whether that is booking on time on a
calendar email direct filling out a form
giving a call if you give people
multiple ways to speak to cells they can
choose the channel that fits them best
whether that is click to call on mobile
or booking a demo on desktop whatever so
think about what your buyers want to see
quickly address that on your website
because if you don't your competitors
will and your competitors are simply
going to steal your leads
great advice Sam thanks very much for
being with me today I really enjoy the
conversation and there you have it I
hope today's SEO and website tips have
been of use as always if you're on
YouTube a quick subscribers appreciated
or on the audio podcast a rating or
review goes a really long way and with
that I'll catch you on the next episode
cheers